The use of external aids for memory enhancement is perhaps the most obvious and familiar method of doing such- want to remember something? *Write it down.* The use of written lists or memos has a long and unsurprising history of assisting with memory retrieval, and is the most common *external aid* for memory, as opposed to *internal aids* such as mnemonic devices. The following [study](https://www.ab-lab.org/bulleted-lists.html) looked into the efficacy of bulleted lists as an external memory aid. Experimenters asked participants to go to a grocery store and pick up certain items, formatting the required items in plain text for some participants and in a bulleted list for others. Participants were not aware that the focus of the study was their recall of the items, and experimenters found that participants given the list format recalled over 30% more items than their counterparts. 
External aids provide a highly reliable and accessible method of memory augmentation, particularly in the age of the mobile phone. Cellphones provide an effective platform for external aids drawing upon many forms of recording and notation.  However, the use of a constantly present external aid such as a cellphone enters a critical zone with the interruptions necessary to *use* the aid start adversely affecting the fluidity of cognitive functions, maybe even hindering memory. One [study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7425970/) involving 119 undergraduate students and the effect of mobile phones on learning and memory found that those with cellphones exhibited lower recall accuracy compared to their peers without a cellphone, and having high awareness of one's cellphone (or "Phone Conscious Thought") negatively affected memory learning and recall. The use of external aids for memory enhancement therefore becomes a bit of a balancing act, budgeting the support provided by the aid against cognitive effort and attention required to use the aid.